Notes on Minaraad migration Plone 4.3.6 (February 2016)
=======================================================


Upgrade
=======


New dependencies
----------------

We need extra package for varnish::

 $ sudo apt-get install automake autotools-dev libedit-dev \
   libjemalloc-dev libncurses-dev libpcre3-dev libtool pkg-config \
   python-docutils python-sphinx

Python virtualenv
-----------------

We need a virtualenv, because the system Python has an older Jinja
package installed, which somehow means we cannot install the newer one
that we need.

 $ cd
 $ virtualenv venv
 $ cd venv
 $ bin/pip install -U pip
 $ bin/pip install -U setuptools

Check that the virtualenv uses Python 2.7::

 $ bin/python


Stop the site
-------------

 $ cd buildout
 $ bin/supervisorctl shutdown


subversion to git
-----------------

The code used to be in subversion, but it is moved to git.  So we need
to switch the current checkout.  Best is to clone git in a separate
directory first.

 $ cd
 $ git clone https://git.milieuinfo.be/scm/mina/minaraad.git
 $ cd minaraad
 $ git checkout 6.0.0  # Or whatever the latest tag is.

Go back to the old subversion checkout and check if there are local
changes, which would be unexpected and will be lost::

 $ cd ~/buildout
 $ svn info
 $ svn status

Now replace it with the git checkout::

 $ cp -a ~/minaraad/.git .
 $ rm -rf .svn
 $ git checkout -- .

There will be various files that were previously in subversion and are
no longer needed in the new git tag.  You must remove them.  This is
easiest done interactively::

 $ git clean -i

This will show you what would be removed.  Press c or 1 to remove the indicated files.
Check again.  You probably need to remove the resources directory manually::

 $ git status
 $ rm -rf resources
 $ git status  # Should now really not complain anymore.


Buildout
--------

Double check that the buildout.cfg file (which is not version
controlled) is still correct.  Read the inline instructions and
compare it with the sample buildout.cfg.in file.  You need to choose
an 'extends' file, possibly enable some parts, and set the postgres
database password.  But likely this is fine: the sample
buildout.cfg.in has not changed since September 2015.

You need to run a fresh bootstrap and buildout with the virtualenv::

 $ ~/bin/venv/bin/python bootstrap.py
 $ bin/buildout

This can take a while...  When this exits without errors, first try if
the instance start without problem on the foreground:

 $ bin/instance fg

When this gives no problems, and you can visit the root of the site at
http://server:8080, the buildout part has worked on this machine.

You could stop the instance with CTRL-C and start bin/supervisord now,
but let's continue with the instance in foreground, mostly so that no
traffic can come in via the varnish cache server.


Second server
-------------

Now do the same steps on the second server:

- new dependencies
- stop the site
- switch to git
- run the buildout
- start the instance on the foreground.

While the buildout on the second server is busy installing stuff, you
can return to the first server to do some actions in your browser.


Update Plone in the browser
---------------------------

Rules:

1. You must be the only person accessing the site at this point.  So
   only one of the two instances should be running.  And visitors to
   www.minaraad.be should not end up at the site, but get a warning
   page or 404 or whatever.

2. Access the site directly via port 8080.  Do not go through the
   varnish cache server.  Do no go through Apache, nginx, or any other
   web server: you will just get timeouts as some of the actions are
   just a push on a button in the browser, but the Zope instance will
   be very busy for several minutes.

Upgrade steps:

- Login at http://localhost:8080/manage_main

- Go to the minaraad Plone Site and click the Plone Upgrade link near
  the top: http://localhost:8080/minaraad/@@plone-upgrade

- Go to portal_setup, Upgrades tab:
  http://localhost:8080/minaraad/portal_setup/manage_upgrades

- Select the Products.minaraad:default profile.

- Run the upgrades.  This takes long.  You can keep an eye on
  ~/buildout/var/log/instance.log, or simply on the terminal if the
  instance is running in the foreground.

- Visit the homepage to check if this shows up fine.

- If the instance is running in the foreground, you can stop it now
  and start bin/supervisord instead.


Post upgrade
============

